In the past week or so, so many people
have been complaining about hitting
their claude code limit insanely fast.
Claims like one prompt that is about 1%
of the limit is now around 10%. You
could go through X and find tons and
tons of threads about this topic. Even
on a $200 per month plan, people are
reaching the session limit way too fast.
And then we got this post from an
anthropic employee that basically said
that they are working on a little change
with peak hours and off peak hours. But
even after that, some people were saying
they were still hitting it really quick
even during off peak hours. So anyways,
I've been playing around a ton, trying
different things, doing research, and I
have 18 token management hacks for you
guys that I've organized from tier one
all the way up to tier three, so they
get more advanced as we go. I'm very
confident that by the end of this video,
you will feel like your Claude code
usage has doubled, tripled, maybe even
5xed. So, let's not waste any time and
just get straight into the video. So, as
I've been optimizing my own token
management, I think that what's really
important to realize first is how tokens
actually work. Because once you realize
how Claude uses tokens, it makes it very
clear how you should actually reverse
engineer the way that you work in order
to use less tokens. So a token is the
smallest unit of text that an AI model
reads and charges you for. It's roughly
one token is one word, but that's not
explicitly true. Kind of just a good
baseline. So every time that you send a
message, Claude rereads the entire
conversation from the beginning. And all
of those are tokens that it's charging
you for. So message one, it will read
it, then it will read its reply, and
then message two, and then the reply all
the way up to your latest prompt. And it
does that every single time. And I think
that alone is a huge light bulb moment
for a lot of people. This means as
you're having a conversation with
Claude, your cost is compounding, not
just adding, it's exponentially growing.
Meaning message one might cost 500
tokens, message 30 costs 15,000 because
it's rereading everything before it. One
developer actually tracked a 100 plus
message chat and found that 98.5% of all
the tokens were just spent rereading the
old chat history in the session. Like
that's a huge waste. Now yes, the
argument has to be made that well it
needs the context and it needs to
understand what we're doing. But still
98.5% is crazy. So take a quick look at
this graphic here. Along the x-axis we
have message number and as it increases
you can see that we have our per message
cost and our cumulative tokens
increasing. But it's not linear. It's
basically each message is rereading all
of the past ones and it has to count
that in. So message one could be 500.
Message 30 could be 15,500 which is 31
times more. And then after 30 messages
you might already be at almost a quarter
million cumulative tokens. Now on top of
all of your own messages, Claude will
also reload your cloud.MD, your MCP
servers, your system prompts, your
skills, your files on every single turn.
And this is invisible overhead, but it
is constantly dripping into your context
and your tokens. And a really important
thing to realize is that bloated context
doesn't just cost you more money, but it
also produces worse output. So you're
paying more and you're getting less.
There's this phenomenon called loss in
the middle, which basically says that
models are paying the most attention in
the beginning of your session and kind
of at the end. So all that stuff in the
middle of your session, kind of in this
dip is getting ignored. All right, so
now that we kind of understand a little
bit more about how cloud code works and
how tokens work, let's move into the
hacks. We're going to start here with
tier one hacks. These are the ones that
are going to be super easy to implement
and everyone should be able to
understand. So, we've got nine of these.
Number one is to start fresh
conversations. Use slashclear between
unrelated tasks. Don't carry context
about topic A into a conversation about
topic B. So, every single message in a
long chat is exponentially more
expensive than the same message in a
fresh chat. So, this one habit is the
number one thing that extends your
session life. And it's pretty obvious
based on what we just talked about. So,
that's why this was number one. Okay,
number two is to disconnect MCP servers.
Every single connected MCP server loads
all of its tool definitions into your
context on every message. This is
another source of completely invisible
tokens that might just be eating up and
eating away. So, one server alone might
be something like 18,000 tokens per
message. So, run MCP at the start of
each session and disconnect the ones
that you don't need. And better yet, if
you're able to find CLIs for something,
so for example, rather than having the
Google Workspace or Google Calendar MCP
server, which eats a lot of tokens, just
use the Google Workspace CLI. It's
faster, it's cheaper, and I think the
future is moving towards having our
agents use CLIs rather than MCPs. All
right, number three, batch prompts into
one message. Three separate messages
cost three times what one combined
message costs because of the way the
tokens work, right? Instead of summarize
this as one message and then now extract
the issues. Now suggest a fix, send it
all in one prompt. If CL did something
slightly wrong, edit your original
message and regenerate instead of
sending a full follow-up correction.
Follow-ups stack onto history
permanently while edits replace the bad
exchange entirely. Now, I will say there
is an argument to be made here that
potentially doing it this way where
you're doing task one, task two, then
task three might actually be better
output quality. I think it depends on
the actual use case. Basically, the idea
would be if you can give AI one specific
task at a time, it's going to do better
because it's more specialized and it's
more focused. But this is definitely
something that you should be aware of.
Okay. Number four is to use plan mode
before any real task. This lets Claude
map out the approach, ask you the right
questions, and it prevents the single
biggest source of token waste, which is
just having Claude go down the wrong
path, writing code, and then basically
everything that it just did, you have to
basically like scrap and redo. It's just
a huge waste of time and tokens. So, you
can add something like this to your
CloudMD. Do not make any changes until
you have 95% confidence in what you need
to build. Ask me follow-up questions
until you reach that confidence level.
This is something that I'm putting into
all of my cloudmds when I am having it
help me build things. Number five, we
have run/context and /cost. SLcontext
shows you exactly what's eating your
tokens right now. So, your conversation
history, your MCP overhead, loaded
files, stuff like that. And /cost shows
you your actual token usage and
estimated spend for that current
session. Most people have no idea where
their tokens are going. And these two
commands make the invisible visible
because if you don't actually know that
you're bleeding because of MCPS, then
how would you be able to fix that? So
when you run /context, this is what it
will look like. It'll basically give you
a screenshot of how many tokens you're
at, what is the cap, and it will
estimate based on the different
categories. And what I did here is this
was ran in a completely fresh session,
no chats. So, what that tells me is,
okay, before I even talk to Claude, I'm
already down 51,000 tokens because of
things like the system prompt, the
system tools, my custom agents, my
skills, memory files, and here I've
actually cleared out all the MCPs, so
there wasn't anything in there, but
those can, like I said, completely blow
up your tokens right from the get- go.
Okay, number six is to set up a status
line. This kind of goes handinhand with
having more visibility. You only
actually see this in your terminal,
though, so you will have to do it there.
Um, and it basically lets you see what's
going on. So, right here you can see in
my terminal, I've got this set up so
that I can see the model I'm using. I
can see a visual kind of progress bar of
my usage. And then I can see uh 5% of my
whole 1 million context window. And I
can see 52,000 tokens out of a,000,000,
which is a million. And just to clarify,
this isn't my session, like my 5 hour
session. This is basically just
indicating that I'm 5% of the way or 52K
out of a 1000K. So all you have to do is
include code in the terminal do /st
status line and explain that you want to
replicate this setup. Number seven is
just super simple but keep your
dashboard open. Same thing with
visibility. You might run into issues
with your limit and just get hit out of
nowhere. But if you have it pulled up
next to you or you have it ready so that
you can switch into that tab and you
know check every 20 40 minutes then
you're going to be able to pace yourself
a little bit better. You could even set
up a automation to basically check in on
it every 30 minutes and send you like a
text or a Slack message and say, "Hey,
by the way, you're getting near your
usage." All right, so number eight, we
have be smart with pasting. Before you
drop a document or a file or something
large, just ask yourself, does Claude
need to read this whole thing? Sometimes
it does. Sometimes it needs that full
context, but sometimes it just needs one
section or one page. So if the bug is in
one function, then paste just that
function. or if it just needs the
context of one little paragraph, just
paste that. Claude needs to be precise
about what it reads, but you also need
to be precise about what you feed it.
And number nine, our last tier one hack
is to actually watch Claude code work.
Don't just fire off a prompt and walk
away or switch tabs. Watch what Claude
is doing, especially on longer tasks.
And this is because if you actually sit
and watch it, sometimes you'll realize
it's going down the wrong path.
Sometimes it gets stuck in its own
loops, rereads the same files, things
like that. So if it's doing that, you
might as well just stop it right there.
kind of the same idea as plan mode. Why
would you let it go down the wrong path,
waste all your tokens, and then just
have to scrap it all in a bad loop, 80%
of the tokens are being used, producing
zero value. So, if you're able to just
watch your session run until you know
it's going down the right path, it could
save you thousands of tokens. All right,
let's kick it up a little bit. Let's
move into our tier 2 hacks. And for
these ones, we have five of them. So,
number one is to keep your claw.md file
lean. Place it in your project route,
whether that is globally or in in local
project. Claude auto reads it at the
start of every single chat as system
context. So keep it under 200 lines.
Include things like your text stack,
your coding conventions, your build
commands, the 95% confidence rule, only
the most important things. And you need
to treat this like an index route to
where more data lives. And it's a
complete mindset shift. This file
basically just tells Claude Code where
is everything that it needs and what to
do every single time. So it can point to
files that are huge, but that way it
just says, "Okay, I don't need this
right now, but if I do need this, I know
exactly where to look." And because it
knows exactly where to look, it's not
going to waste time or tokens searching
through and reading other files. It's
just able to grab it right there by the
file name. And the reason I say this is
a mindset shift because you should be
doing this with other things, not just
your cloud. MD, with your skills or with
your um, you know, master reference
guide sheets. I saw someone talking
about how they created an index that's
super super lean and it shows cloud code
exactly where to go in the cloud code
documentation. So if it needs help with
something related to cloud code, it
doesn't have to search through the whole
database. It can just say, "Okay, here's
my index file. I know exactly which URL
to look up at." Super simple. You want
to keep this lean and trim it all the
time. It's always a work in progress
because every single chat, not just like
your session, every single message,
cloud.mmd gets read. So if your cloudmd
file is a,000 lines, every single time
you shoot off a message, even if you
just say hi, the whole thing is going to
get read. Okay. Number two here is to be
surgical with file references. Don't
just say something like here's my whole
repo, go find the bug. Say something
more like check the verify user function
inside the off.js file. Or you can also
use at file name to point at specific
files instead of once again letting
claude explore freely. The whole idea of
being specific and routing. All right.
So number three, I'm saying to compact
at around 60% capacity. Autocompact
triggers at like 95% by which point your
context is already pretty degraded. So
run slashcontext to check your capacity
percentage or you should have the status
line set up and at about 60% just run
the slash compact with specific
instructions on what it should actually
be preserving. After three to four
compacts in a row the quality does start
to degrade. So at that point once you've
done three or four just get a session
summary/clear
give the session summary back and then
keep going. All right so number four
short breaks are actually costing you.
Cloud code uses prompt training to avoid
reprocessing unchanged context, but the
cache has a fiveminute timeout. So if
you step away and you come back and it's
been longer than 5 minutes, your next
message reprocesses everything from
scratch at full cost. And that is why
some people feel like their usage just
randomly spikes if they might have, you
know, stepped away and came back. So if
you're going to do that, just consider
doing a /compact or a slashclear before
you step away. All right, number five,
command output bloat. When Claude runs
shell commands, the full output enters
your context window. So if you have a
command that it comes back with 200
commits or you know just tons and tons
of data, then all of that is tokens that
gets sent to your model. So really the
takeaway here is to be intentional about
what you let Claude run. If you know in
a certain project that it doesn't need
to use certain commands, then you can go
ahead and in that project deny those
permissions. And this is another one
that seems like it's invisible because
when it runs like a bash or, you know,
certain commands, it basically just has
like one line and you don't actually see
all the tokens that it has, you know,
sent there. All right, so I'm sitting
here editing this video and there's just
one more thing that I wanted to get off
my chest and it's basically about
hitting your limit. And you know, the
goal of this video and your goal should
be to optimize so that you don't hit
your limit. But I don't think that you
should associate hitting your limit with
like it shouldn't be a negative
connotation because ultimately if you're
doing a lot of these hacks and you are
not just like being wasteful with tokens
then hitting your limit is actually a
good thing if you think about it because
it means that you are using this tool so
much and I think that's what you want to
be. I think you want to be a power user
of this tool to the point where it's
like got to wait again. And you know,
waiting sucks, but people that are using
it so much are going to be so much more
productive and so much farther ahead
than people who are never hitting their
limits. You know, not make not getting
their their money's worth and not truly
getting the leverage that you are now
getting. So, anyways, quick little raw
rant there, but I think it's an
important mindset shift to have. you
know, just something to think about. All
right, so we're moving on to tier three
now. I hope you guys feel like you
already have a lot of things that you
want to implement and these ones are
getting a little crazier as well. So,
we've got four of these here and I've
got a few bonus ones also, but number
one is to pick the right model. So,
sonnet for your default most coding
work, haiku for sub agents, formatting,
simple tasks, opus for deep
architectural planning, and only when
sonnet wasn't enough. Try to keep this
under 20% of usage or unless you just
really really need it for that project.
Now, a little tip here is when you have
a huge codebase and you want to do
certain things like maybe a review, then
try bringing in codecs. There is an
official plug-in now and I made a video
about this. I'll tag that right up here.
But you could basically have, you know,
Opus and Sonnet working together to
build you, you know, a project or a
codebase and then you could just bring
in codeex to actually review everything
and that way you're saving yourself on
the clawed tokens. The next one, number
two here, is the cost of sub agents.
Agent workflows use roughly seven to 10
times more tokens than a standard single
agent session. Now, why is that? Because
they wake up with their own full context
and it's a separate instance. So, they
basically have to reload everything when
you start up the new session. All of
those files, all of the system tools,
like everything like that. Now, what you
can do though, which is helpful, is to
delegate to sub agents for one-off
tasks, especially if you want that
one-off task to use Haiku. So, maybe you
need to process a lot of information or
maybe you need to do a ton of research
and get just like a summary back. Now,
yes, tokens are still tokens no matter
what at the end of the day, but if you
can make 80% of your tokens a cheaper
model rather than 80% of your tokens an
expensive model, then you're going to be
saving money. And then, of course, agent
teams are cool. Um, sometimes I really
do actually like them and it helps me
get more higher quality outputs, but
they're very, very expensive. So, try to
use them very sparingly. All right, so
number three is to understand peak
hours. So, we just talked about at the
beginning how they've adjusted how fast
your 5 hour session window drains based
on demand during the peak hours, which
are 8 am to 2 p.m. Eastern time on
weekdays. But off peak, this is when
your usage is kind of either normal or
it lasts a little longer. And these are
afternoons, evenings, weekends. So, if
you actually think about this
strategically, maybe you want to make
sure that you're running big refactors
or multi- aent sessions or big projects
during off- peak hours only. Otherwise,
you're going to, you know, drain right
through that peak session. And on top of
this, we'll call this a little hack 3.5,
which is the one I kind of alluded to
earlier when I said, "Hey, just keep
open your cloud account so you can see
your usage at all times." If you're near
a reset and you have room left in your
allocation, then go heavy. Try to hit
that usage limit before it resets. Get
your money's worth. Let your agents go
loose at that point. And on the other
side, if you're getting near your limit,
but you still have lots of time, then
step away. This is your time to take a
break, take a walk, make some lunch,
come back with a full budget instead of
burning the last 5% on something small
and getting stuck mid task and having to
just kind of, you know, lose that flow
state that you might have been in. Okay.
Number four, your systems constitution,
which is claw.md. This should contain
stable decisions, architecture rules,
and progress summaries. Think of it like
the source of truth that makes every
prompt shorter and shorter. Save
decisions, not conversations. Every
architectural call that you store there
is a paragraph that you never have to
type again. So this builds on top of the
way that you were thinking about it back
in tier 1. You can add rules in there
that basically tell it, hey, I want you
to help me make sure I'm being smart
about tokens. Use sub aents for any
exploration or research. If a task needs
three plus files or multi-file analysis,
spawn a sub aent and only return
summarized insights. Spawn that sub aent
in haiku. And here's a little prompt
that I have at the bottom of mycloud.MD.
And I will say before I read this out,
you have to be careful because when you
make a file like this um kind of
self-learning or self-evolving, you have
to check on it frequently because you
don't want it to accidentally get too
bloated. But here I said applied
learning. When something fails
repeatedly, when Nate has to reexplain
or when a workaround is found for a
platform, tool, or limitation, add a
oneline bullet here. Keep each bullet
under 15 words. No explanations. Only
add things that will save time in future
sessions. And then it's got some
bullets. Now, I'm not saying this is the
most optimal prompt, but I think this
sort of system of having your Claudet MD
actually learn and continuously think
about how it can save you time and
tokens is a good idea to play with. All
right, so I know that we just went
through a ton of stuff. This whole slide
deck will be available for download for
free in my free school community. The
link for that will be down in the
description. But right now, what you
should go do are these things. Go
run/context, see what it looks like. Go
to some of your active sessions.
Run/cost status line. Make sure it's
showing your model, your context
percentage, and your token count. Make
sure you pull up your clog usage
dashboard so you can see your remaining
allocation and what time it resets.
Disconnect unused MCP servers. Start
complex tasks in plan mode. Use/clear
when you're switching to an unrelated
task. Manually compact at 60% context.
Batch your multi-step instructions into
single messages. And schedule heavy
sessions for off- peak hours. and really
just be mindful about the actual timing.
So, I wanted to kind of leave you guys
with one maybe two messages. The first
thing is just the idea that there is a
balance between quality and cost. And
so, that's kind of a game that you have
to play a little bit and sometimes you
do have to go for the higher quality
which ultimately is going to cost you
more money and that's just the way it
works. But the other thing is just to
keep it simple and think about what we
talked about at the beginning of this
video, how tokens actually work, how
claude code actually charges you. Most
people don't need a bigger plan. they
need to stop resending their entire
conversation history 30 times when you
could just send it, you know, five
times. It's not a limits problem. It's a
context hygiene problem. But anyways,
that is going to do it for this one. If
you guys enjoyed or you learned
something new, please give it a like. It
helps me out a ton. And as always, I
appreciate you guys making it to the end
of the video. I'll see you on the next
one. Thanks everyone.